PMM-10913-server-with-external-postgres-server (#959)
percona/pmm-doc: docs/details/postgresql.md

| `POSTGRES_DBPASSWORD`       | [postgres-password](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-PASSWORD)           | Password to be used for database authentication.
| `POSTGRES_SSL_MODE`      | [postgres-ssl-mode](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLMODE)    | This option determines whether or with what priority a secure SSL TCP/IP connection will be negotiated with the database. Currently supported: `disable`, `require`, `verify-ca`, `verify-full`.
| `POSTGRES_SSL_CA_PATH`    | [postgres-ssl-ca-path](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLROOTCERT)      | This parameter specifies the name of a file containing SSL certificate authority (CA) certificate(s).
| `POSTGRES_SSL_KEY_PATH`    | [postgres-ssl-key-path](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLKEY)      | This parameter specifies the location for the secret key used for the client certificate.
| `POSTGRES_SSL_CERT_PATH`    | [postgres-ssl-cert-path](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLCERT)     | This parameter specifies the file name of the client SSL certificate.

> By default, communications between the PMM server and the database are not encrypted. In order to secure a connection, please follow [PostgeSQL SSL instructions](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/ssl-tcp.html) and provide `POSTGRES_SSL_*` variables. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, communication between the PMM server and the database is not encrypted. To secure a connection, follow [PostgeSQL SSL instructions](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/ssl-tcp.html) and provide `POSTGRES_SSL_*` variables. 
```

**Example**

To use PostgreSQL as an external database: 

> * Generate all nessesary SSL certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Generate all necessary SSL certificates.
```

> * Deploy Percona Server with certificates under read-only permissions and grafana user and grafana group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Deploy Percona Server with certificates under read-only permissions and Grafana user and Grafana group.
```

* Attach pg_hba.conf and certificates to the PostgreSQL image.

> * Run PostgreSQL server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run PostgreSQL server.
```

```sh
docker run 
--name external-postgres 
-e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=secret 

> <image_id> 

Reviewer 2: I think we don't support any Percona PG versions?

We probably need specific version here of Percona PG

Author: minimum required PG version warning added

postgres 
-c shared_preload_libraries=pg_stat_statements 
-c pg_stat_statements.max=10000 
-c pg_stat_statements.track=all 
-c pg_stat_statements.save=off 
-c ssl=on
-c ssl_ca_file=$CA_PATH
-c ssl_key_file=$KEY_PATH
-c ssl_cert_file=$CERT_PATH
-c hba_file=$HBA_PATH
```
* Run Percona server.
```sh
docker run 
--name percona-server 
-e POSTGRES_ADDR=$ADDRESS:$PORT
-e POSTGRES_DBNAME=$DBNAME
-e POSTGRES_USERNAME=$USER
-e POSTGRES_DBPASSWORD=$PASSWORD
-e POSTGRES_SSL_MODE=$SSL_MODE
-e POSTGRES_SSL_CA_PATH=$CA_PATH
-e POSTGRES_SSL_KEY_PATH=$KEY_PATH
-e POSTGRES_SSL_CERT_PATH=$CERT_PATH 

> <image_id>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
percona/pmm-server:2
```

# PostgreSQL

You can use an external PostgreSQL database instance outside the PMM Server container running on other hosts.

## Environment variables

PMM predefines certain flags that allow you to use PostgreSQL parameters as environment variables:

!!! caution alert alert-warning "Warning"
     The `POSTGRES_*` environment variables are experimental and subject to change. It is recommended that you use these variables for testing purposes only and not on production.

To use PostgreSQL as an external database instance, use the following environment variables: 
 
`POSTGRES_ADDR` -> [postgres-addr](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-HOST)

> :   Host name and port for external PostgreSQL database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:   Hostname and port for external PostgreSQL database.
```

 
`POSTGRES_DBPASSWORD` -> [postgres-password](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-PASSWORD)
:   Password to be used for database authentication.

`POSTGRES_SSL_MODE` -> [postgres-ssl-mode](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLMODE)
:   This option determines whether or with what priority a secure SSL TCP/IP connection will be negotiated with the database. Currently supported: `disable`, `require`, `verify-ca`, `verify-full`.

`POSTGRES_SSL_CA_PATH` -> [postgres-ssl-ca-path](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLROOTCERT)
:   This parameter specifies the name of a file containing SSL certificate authority (CA) certificate(s).

`POSTGRES_SSL_KEY_PATH` -> [postgres-ssl-key-path](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLKEY)
:   This parameter specifies the location for the secret key used for the client certificate.

`POSTGRES_SSL_CERT_PATH` -> [postgres-ssl-cert-path](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLCERT)
:   This parameter specifies the file name of the client SSL certificate.

> By default communications between server and database are not encrypted. In order to secure connection you can read [this](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/ssl-tcp.html) article and provide `POSTGRES_SSL_*` variables. 

Reviewer: " Communication between the server and the database is not encrypted by default. To secure a connection, follow [PostgreSQL SSL instructions](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/ssl-tcp.html) and provide the POSTGRES_SSL_*` variables."

**Example**

To use PostgreSQL as an external database: 

* Generate all nessesary SSL certificates.

> * Build Percona Server with certificates under read-only rights and  grafana user and group.

Reviewer: "Deploy Percona Server with certificates under read-only permissions and `grafana` user and grafana group."

> * Build PostgreSQL image with pg_hba.conf and certificates.

Reviewer: Would attach be the appropriate word?
